Reviews and initial meta-reviews for your submission have been released, and the author response / discussion phase begins now and runs through August 7, 2026.

Per the NeurIPS 2026 handbook, the author response period is structured in three sub-phases:

Phase 1: Author response only (Jul 23 – July 27). You can view reviews and the initial meta-review and write your initial response. ACs and reviewers will not see your responses until the end of this phase. This gives you time to draft a thoughtful response.
Phase 2: Author / Reviewer / AC discussion (July 27 – Aug 3). Reviewers and ACs see your initial response and may ask follow-up questions. You can continue to respond. Reviewers and ACs may also message each other.
Phase 3: Reviewer / AC discussion only (Aug 3 – Aug 10). Authors will not be able to see continued discussion in this phase, but reviewers and ACs may continue to converge.
Important rules for author responses (from the handbook):

No revisions to the paper or supplementary material during the response period. Responses go in the OpenReview discussion only, your original submission remains the basis for the reviewers' and AC's acceptance decisions. Responses serve to clarify the reviewers' and AC's questions; you do not need to rewrite the paper in a hurry.
Per-review character limit: 10,000 characters. Plain text with markdown is supported, but no file uploads.
No links. The only exception is if reviewers asked for code, you may send an anonymized link to the AC in an Official Comment, with all linked files anonymized.
Anonymity. Author responses must not reveal author identities or otherwise violate double-blind reviewing.
Use the per-review "Rebuttal" buttons in OpenReview.
A few additional reminders:

Use the initial meta-review as your guide. It tells you what would most likely change the AC's view of the paper. Focus your response on those points.
The program committee reserves the right to solicit additional reviews after the initial response period. If we do, those reviews will be added to OpenReview as they come in, and you will have a chance to respond.
Engage early and engage often. Reviewers may have follow-up questions in Phase 2, do not wait until the last day to post your initial response.
Code of Conduct: please follow https://neurips.cc/public/CodeOfConduct throughout the discussion to keep it factual and productive.
If your submission has only 2 reviews, please expect an additional review in the next few days; we made significant efforts during the emergency review period to ensure each paper has at least 3 reviews. Similarly, if your submission does not have an initial meta-review yet, please expect this to appear soon.

Your AC is your first point of contact for questions about your paper. You can message them through the "Author AC Confidential Comment" feature on OpenReview.

We wish you the best of luck for the discussion phase.